in this video you will learn everything
you need to know about broken wing
butterfly option trading strategy broken
wing butterflies are also known as skip
strike butterflies first of all what are
the different types of broken wing
butterflies they exist for different
types of broken wing butterflies the
long cord broken wing butterfly the long
put broken wing butterfly the short Col
broken wing butterfly and finally the
short put broken wing butterfly short
broken wing butterflies are also
referred to as inverse broken limb
butterflies as you can see on the payoff
chart long haul and short put broken
wing butterflies are bearish strategies
and the other two are bullish strategies
furthermore you can see that long cold
and long put broken wing butterflies are
basically just mirror images of each
other the same goes for the short
versions as long broke moon butterflies
are much more commonly traded and
generally a more popular strategy this
video will focus on them so from now on
when I mentioned broken wing butterflies
I will be referring to the long ones
just like the payoff diagram everything
else is also just the other way around
for short broken wing butterflies than
it is for long boring butterflies with
that being said let's actually start
breaking down broken wing butterflies
let us begin with the cool broken wing
butterfly this is its payoff profile the
blue line is its payoff profile at
expiration whereas the orange line is to
pay off sometime before expiration to
set up a coil broke the wing butterfly
you have to buy one in the money call
option cell to add the money call
options and finally buy an out of the
money call option as well the distance
between the add the money and out of the
money option should be greater than that
between the in the money and add money
option the pod broken wing butterfly
works very similar to buying out of the
money our product
skip a strike and then sell to add the
money puts and finally buy one in the
money put option let's now take a closer
look at the profit and loss of propylene
butterflies you can clearly see from the
payoff charts that broken when
butterflies are defined risk and defined
profit strategies which means that a max
loss at max profit are limited to a
certain amount most of the time you can
open a broken wing butterfly position
for a net credit which means that you
will receive money to open the position
this however depends on which strikes
you choose to calculate the max profit
of a broken wing butterfly you have to
add the premium received and the
difference between the short strike and
the in Dimona strike for cool broken
wing bet butterflies that's this
distance here and for put broken wing
butterfly is this one the max loss can
be calculated very similar all you have
to do is subtract the premium received
from the distance between the skipped
strike and the out-of-the-money strike
on the chart for cool broken wing
butterflies that's this distance and
this distance here for put broken wing
butterflies note that in reality you
will never really have to calculate this
yourself because your broker platform
will do it for you nevertheless it's
still very good to have some
understanding of the profit and loss of
your trading strategies so let's take a
closer look at an example to clarify all
this for this example we will set up a
cool broken wing butterfly with the
following options the underlying price
is $80 we buy a call option with the
strike price of 75 we sell two call
options at the 80th strike and finally
we buy another call option at the 90th
strike the time to expiration is 45 days
for all these options the net price was
a credit of 0.36 dollars the distance
between the in the money and add the
money options is $5 if we now add the
net credit of 0.36 we will have our max
profit the distance between the out of
the money and the skipped strike is also
$5 so all that's left to find the max
loss is subtracting 0.36 dollars from
these five dollars as visible from the
payoff chart this broken wing brought a
fly achieves the profit at expiration if
the underlying price is below about $85
if the underlying price is precisely at
$80 the max profit of $536 will be
achieved if it is below $75 a profit of
$36 will be achieved the max loss of for
$64 on the other hand will occur if the
underlying price is above 90 note that
in all these calculations we did not
account for any trading commissions in
reality you will also have to subtract
commissions from Max profit and add them
to the max loss now let us move on to
the Greeks of broken wing butterflies
here the focus will lie and cool broken
wing butterflies however everything
discussed here is just analog for put
broken butterflies I will show you some
charts of each Greek just be aware that
the values of each week are all
multiplied by a constant factor of 10 so
that they are better visible on the
chart let us start with the option Greek
Delta theatre edges the rate of change
of the options price for $1 off move in
the underlying asset in other words
Delta is the sensitivity of options
price to changes in the underlying price
the orange chart and the payoff profile
shows
Delta changes for changes in the
underlying price as you can see on the
chart when opening a coral broke wing
butterfly the Delta will be negative
which means that the strategy will
profit from declining prices
the next option Greek is gamma which
measures the rate of change of Delta and
it can be seen on the purple line on
this chart when opening a cooler broken
butterfly the gamma will usually be
negative as you can see on the chart if
the underlying price moves Delta's rate
of change also decreases furthermore if
the underlying price declines Delta
increases which means it becomes a less
negative or even positive whereas if the
underlying price increases Delta
decreases and becomes more negative this
also makes sense as a coral broken
butterfly is a somewhat barrier strategy
so if the underlying price increases it
becomes more bearish next up is theatre
the Greek that measures the change in an
options price for one day going PI in
other words the option sensitivity to
time as you can see from the green plot
theta is positive when you open a cool
broken wing butterfly position
this means that time will work in your
favor and your position will slowly gain
value every day however if the
underlying price increases to above the
out of the money call option Theatre
will turn negative and the broken wing
butterfly value will slowly decay away
now let's talk about Vega Vega measures
the options price sensitivity to changes
in implied volatility normally via is
negative which means that a cool broken
wing butterfly would profit from
decreasing IV to take advantage of this
it's best to open the broken wing
butterfly when implied volatility is
high if you do this the broken wing
butterfly
can gain value from dropping ivy
therefore it's good practice to trade
broken-winged butterflies when IV rank
is over 50 the last Greek is Hall which
means the sensitivity to changes in
interest rates this is normally negative
Oh however usually isn't relevant if you
aren't trading any super long-term
options now with the Greeks out of the
way let's sum up the section by looking
at the goal of a broken wing butterfly
trade the following two charts are the
same 3-dimensional chart from two
different angles they plot the
relationship between time till
expiration implied volatility and the
price of a broken wing butterfly the
x-axis is the days to expiration the
y-axis is implied volatility and the z
axis is the price of a broken wing
butterfly for this chart the underlying
price is assumed constant here you can
clearly see that the price of the broken
wing butterfly increases dramatically
when IV is low and there are only a few
days left until expiration the goal of a
broken wing butterfly trade is to take
advantage of the steepest point of this
slope so that your broken wing butterfly
position can gain as much value as
possible in the shortest possible time
span therefore it's best to enter a
broken wing butterfly somewhere here
where IV is very high and there are only
about 40 to 50 days left until
expiration then the goal is for implied
volatility to drop as fast as possible
and time to pass if this happens you
broken wing butterfly that can be opened
for a small credit will turn into a big
debit within a short amount of time
furthermore you don't want the
underlying price to move too far away
from the short strikes
hopefully this chart helps to visualize
how Ivey and time can affect a broken
wing butterfly trade these charts and
all the charge of the Greeks are taken
directly from the strategy lab which is
a tool that can help you analyze option
strategies but more on that later last
but not least let us sum up how and when
to trade broken wing butterflies first
of all here are the payoff profiles of a
cool and put bro moon butterfly from
these you can see that broken wing
butterflies are first and foremost
neutral strategies cool broken wing
butterflies are slightly bearish and put
broken wing butterflies are slightly
bullish however the optimal outcome is
for the underlying price to stay where
it is the bullish and bearish aspects of
put and cool or broken wing butterflies
are just for protection if the
underlying price moves too far therefore
when trading broken wing butterflies you
should not have a very bullish or
bearish market assumption
instead you should mainly expect the
price to stay at or move to the short
strikes furthermore you should always
open broken wing butterflies for a net
credit if you open a broken wing
butterfly for a net debit both sides
become losing sides this dramatically
decreases your probability of profit
otherwise I recommend mainly trading
broken wing butterflies near the
underlying trading price I do not
recommend trading broken wing
butterflies deep in or out of their
money in addition to that broken wing
butterflies are best traded in high
implied volatility environments so that
you can take advantage of potential
drops in Ivy so always look at Ivy rank
before opening a broken wing butterfly
position a good profit target is right
around 50% because it's quite unlikely
to achieve max
fit as the underlying price has to be
exactly at the shorts rice for this to
happen so instead try to go for a
slightly more conservative goal of 50%
broke moon butterflies can be used for
high probability trading and in general
I find them a very good option strategy
that should be in every options traders
toolbox speaking of useful trading tools
if you found the charts of this video
helpful I highly recommend checking out
the strategy lab the strategy lab is a
tool that was developed to give you a
much better understanding of options
pricing and option strategies it allows
you to visually analyze countless
different custom options trading
strategies so if you're interested in
learning more about option strategies
with a strategy lab make sure to check
out the link in the description below
thanks for watching I really hope you
enjoyed this video and learned a lot
make sure to let me know if you have any
feedback or questions if you enjoy
content like this consider subscribing
see you in the next video
you